While the relationship between latency and magnitude of the motion is nonlinear in the strict sense (see Figure 2), it can be reasonably well accounted for by linear processes with some small nonlinearities that need to be accounted for in the motion controller. We do see that the pitch motion is overdamped, while the yaw is somewhat underdamped. This is one of the reasons that the arrival latency of the yaw is lower than that of the pitch, the other reason being the fundamental difference in the inertial terms and possibly the effective driving strength. At lower step sizes, the yaw exhibits overshoot, while at larger steps it hunts on the way to the target. This variation with motion magnitude is indication of nonlinearity, but one that is primarily related to an apparent slew rate limit of the system. We see that in the maximum instantaneous velocity chart (system_id.html), which has a slope that appears to decrease at high angles for the yaw.

We also see an initial delay between the step change in the target and when the motor reaches maximum angular velocity, which is entirely typical of driving inertial loads. This delay does appear to exhibit some angular dependence, more than doubling over the range for the yaw, and a somwhat less pronounced effect from the pitch. That is suprising, given that yaw would seem to be the more rotationally symmetric axis, but this maybe partly because the higher angles also correspond to higher total motion amplitude. That being said, the rise time of a linear system does not depend on step size, so this is an area to study further.

The consistent latency of the position relative to the target is surprising. When the system is driven at a velocity that is much less than slew rate limited, then the controller should be able to track the target precisely. Instead, we see a consistent 50 ms in yaw and 70 ms in pitch, even when the target is moving at a steady and slow velocity. This should be fixable in the motion controller. This delay is much different from the initial ~50 ms delay that the second order system naturally responds with when first commanded to change. That is a fundamental limit based on the inertia and motor drive limitations. After that intial delay, the system should be able to track velocities that are below its maximum motor limitations with no delay. This appears like a PID controller that has the I turned off during motion, though I am sure that is just a rough approximation of what is actually going on.

The summary of the disturbances generated due to firing events is shown in Table 2. We show many examples of response to firing events in the motion_disturbance.html. Several of these have a fire event recorded, but there is no apparent disturbance. When there is a disturbance, the shape is different for pitch and yaw, and also may vary with angle through this requires more study. The magnitude of disturbance is comparable between pitch and yaw, with pitch being slightly larger. The pitch generally displays a double lobed response, indicating that there may be two modes of motion participating in it. This makes sense given that the pitch will likely be subjected to a delayed response from disturbances in the yaw base, which would be amplified by the moment arm of the stand (purely conjecture based on the geometry shown on the company's home page). The yaw usually only has a single lobe, but not always. Studying this further to determine if there is a systematic angular effect is recommended, but is beyond the scope of this report.

For the shot impulse response, we also observe a number of interesting features. When fired while under motion, then we see recoil in both axes of similar magnitude to the disturbances under stable operation, followed by a compensation being applied to the target. This compensation is applied only after a very long delay, longer than the critical dynamics of the system. This may indicate that the compensation is actually coming from video feedback instead of motion feedback of the barrel. Also, the compensation is applied at a sampling rate that is significant on the scale of the dynamics of the system. This combination of delayed feeback with a low sampling rate is unstable, and we see that in the prolonged disturbance as it is fighting against the compensation.

If this compensation were to be applied based upon an accurate measure of the barrel motion, and updated at a period of 1 to 5 ms, then the disturbance could be substantially reduced. The camera input would still be used for the targeting, but the barrel motion would be provided as an input to the control loop as well.

While I'm tempted to try and do a more thorough system identification using the step response data, that is beyond the scope of the project, and would best be performed with a more controlled data set gathered specifically for that purpose.
